Add blog article about gRPC probes beta (#32664)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-05-13-grpc-probes-in-beta.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.24: gRPC container probes in beta"
date: 2022-05-13
slug: grpc-probes-now-in-beta
---

**Author**: Sergey Kanzhelev (Google)

> With Kubernetes 1.24 the gRPC probes functionality entered beta and is available by default.

Reviewer: I'm just a bit curious here since starting K8s v1.24, beta APIs will not be available by default. Since this is not an existing beta API, I'm not sure if I'm misunderstanding something with this sentence.
```suggestion
With Kubernetes 1.24 the gRPC probes functionality entered beta and is available by default.
```

    --cluster-version=1.23
```

You will also need to configure `kubectl` to access the cluster:

```shell
gcloud container clusters get-credentials test-grpc
```

### Trying the feature out

Let's create the pod to test how gRPC probes work. For this test we will use the `agnhost` image.
This is a k8s maintained image with that can be used for all sorts of workload testing.
For example, it has a useful [grpc-health-checking](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/b2c5bd2a278288b5ef19e25bf7413ecb872577a4/test/images/agnhost/README.md#grpc-health-checking) module
that exposes two ports - one is serving health checking service,
another - http port to react on commands `make-serving` and `make-not-serving`.

Here is an example pod definition. It starts the `grpc-health-checking` module,
exposes ports `5000` and `8080`, and configures gRPC readiness probe:

``` yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-grpc
spec:
  containers:
  - name: agnhost
    image: k8s.gcr.io/e2e-test-images/agnhost:2.35
    command: ["/agnhost", "grpc-health-checking"]
    ports:
    - containerPort: 5000
    - containerPort: 8080
    readinessProbe:
      grpc:
        port: 5000
```

> If the file called `test.yaml`, you can create the pod and check it's status.

Reviewer: Do we intend to say - If the file called `test.yaml` is created?

```shell
kubectl describe pod test-grpc
```

The output now will have:

```
Conditions:
  Type              Status
  Initialized       True
  Ready             False
  ContainersReady   False
  PodScheduled      True

...

  Warning  Unhealthy  2s (x6 over 42s)  kubelet            Readiness probe failed: service unhealthy (responded with "NOT_SERVING")
```

Once it is switched back, in about one second the Pod will get back to ready status:

``` bsh
curl http://localhost:8080/make-serving
kubectl describe test-grpc
```

The output indicates that the Pod went back to being `Ready`:

```
Conditions:
  Type              Status
  Initialized       True
  Ready             True
  ContainersReady   True
  PodScheduled      True
```

This new built-in gRPC health probing on Kubernetes makes implementing a health-check via gRPC
much easier than the older approach that relied on using a separate `exec` probe. Read through
the official
[documentation](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/#define-a-grpc-liveness-probe)
to learn more and provide feedback before the feature will be promoted to GA.

## Summary

> Kubernetes is a popular workload orchestration platform and we add features based on feedback and demand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is a popular workload orchestration platform;
contributors add features based on feedback and demand.
```
(“we” could read as Google which isn't wrong but also isn't the “we” that I think you meant to imply)

> Features like gRPC probes support is a minor improvement that will make life of many app developers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A feature such as this one, adding support for gRPC probes, is a minor improvement that
will make the life of many app developers
```

> easier and apps more resilient. Try it today and give feedback, before the feature went into GA.

Reviewer 2: I'd reword this for both grammar and meaning. Some examples:
```suggestion
easier, and apps more resilient. Try it today and send in your feedback—I'd appreciate
hearing about people's real-world experience before the feature becomes generally available.
```
or
```suggestion
easier, and apps more resilient. Try it today and give feedback—I'd appreciate hearing
about people's real-world experience before the feature moves to GA.
```
or
```suggestion
easier, and apps more resilient. Try it today and give feedback—I'd appreciate hearing
about people's real-world experience before recommending that it graduates to a stable
feature.
```
